docs(MultiSelect): add docs for custom values (#2917)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/multiselect/custom-value.md

---

> title: Custom Value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Custom Values
```
I suggest using plural here, too. The MultiSelect generally supports multiple selection and can have multiple custom values.

> page_title: MultiSelect - Custom Value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: MultiSelect - Custom Values
```

> description: Custom values and user input in the MultiColumnComboBox for Blazor.

Reviewer 2: MultiColumnComboBox? Is this correct?

slug: multiselect-custom-value
tags: telerik,blazor,multiselect,custom,value,input
published: True
position: 16
---

# MultiSelect Custom Values

> The MultiSelect component allows the user to type in their own value that is not a part of the predefined set of options that the developer provided.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The MultiSelect component lets users type their own values that are not part of the options predefined by the developer.
```

> The text entered by the user can still go into the field the combo box is bound to through two-way binding.

Reviewer 2: Is combo box correct here? (Just checking if it's a leftover from MultiColumnComboBox.)

> To enable custom user input, set the `AllowCustom` parameter to `true`. When the user types a custom value, it will appear as the first item in the list with the label: `Use"typed value"`. Refer to the example below to see it in action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable custom user input, set the `AllowCustom` parameter to `true`. When the user types a custom value, it appears as the first item in the list with the label: `Use"typed value"`. See the example below for details.
```

Reviewer: Here we can add information how the user can add the custom value. My understanding for the feature is that the user must click the `Use"typed value"` in the popup and the custom value is added to the component `Value`. Before that, the MultiSelect does not actually have a custom selected value, right?

> > When MultiSelect is bound to a model, the `TextField`, `ValueField` and the `Value` must be of type `string`. Otherwise an exception will be thrown. Strings are required because the user input can take any form and may not be parsable to other types (such as numbers or GUID).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> When the MultiSelect is bound to a model, the `TextField`, `ValueField`, and `Value` must be of type `string`. Otherwise, an exception is thrown. Strings are required because user input can take any form and may not be parsable to other types (such as numbers or GUIDs).
```

> When custom input is allowed, the [ValueChanged event](slug:multiselect-events#valuechanged) fires on every keystroke, and not when an item is selected, because the MultiSelect component acts as a text input.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When custom input is allowed, the [`ValueChanged` event](slug://multiselect-events#valuechanged) fires on every keystroke instead of when an item is selected. This happens because the MultiSelect component behaves like a text input.
```

>caption Allow custom user input in the MultiSelect component

````RAZOR
<TelerikMultiSelect Data="@Cities"
                    @bind-Value="@SelectedCities"

>                     TextField="@nameof(City.CityName)" ValueField="@nameof(City.CityName)"

Reviewer: Let's move the `ValueField` to a new line for consistency.

                    AllowCustom="true"

>                     Placeholder="Select city for the list or type a custom one"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    Placeholder="Select a city for the list or type a custom one"
```

                    Width="400px">
</TelerikMultiSelect>

@code {
    private List<City> Cities { get; set; } = new();
    private List<string> SelectedCities { get; set; } = new();

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        Cities = new List<City>
        {
            new City { CityId = 1, CityName = "New York"},
            new City { CityId = 2, CityName = "London"},
            new City { CityId = 3, CityName = "Tokyo"},
            new City { CityId = 4, CityName = "Paris"},
            new City { CityId = 5, CityName = "Sydney"}
        };

        base.OnInitialized();
    }

    public class City
    {
        public int CityId { get; set; }
        public string CityName { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    }
}
````

## Limitations

> * `AllowCustom` is not compatible with [Adaptive rendering](slug:adaptive-rendering).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `AllowCustom` is not compatible with [adaptive rendering](slug://adaptive-rendering).
```

Reviewer 2: What does this mean exactly? That MultiSelect with AllowCustom is not adaptive (is it adaptive when used with predefined values only)? Or something else?

Author: Yes, the idea here is to inform the reader that the MultiSelect component with AllowCustom functionality has the following limitation. In my opinion is clear enough that the `Limitation` section in this article is related to the `AllowCustom` functionality. We use the same approach in the [MultiColumnComboBox documentation](https://github.com/telerik/blazor-docs/blob/df06961d4d71c382834dafd716f1ff483c5f4581/components/multicolumncombobox/custom-value.md?plain=1#L112). 

If there is a better approach to documenting that, I'm open to suggestions.

---
title: Custom Values
page_title: MultiSelect - Custom Values
description: Learn how to use custom values and user input in the MultiSelect for Blazor.

> slug: multiselect-custom-value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
slug: multiselect-custom-values
```
